plasma viremia normally ranges from 1 to 5 copies of viralRNA/mL as detected by extremely sensitive RT-PCR assays[8-10]. Despite the observation that prolonged HAARTtreatment is associated with many metabolic disordersand toxicities [11,12], the prospect of lifelong treatment istoday a necessary evil because interrupting HAART leadsto a rapid viral rebound, attributable to the persistence oflatently-infected cellular reservoirs notably in restingmemory CD4+ T cells [13-15] and probably in other cellpopulations [16-18]. Viral reservoirs include cell types oranatomical sites where a replication-competent form ofthe virus persists with more stable kinetics than the mainpool of actively replicating virus [5,19]. Because theyexpress no viral protein, latently-infected reservoir cellsare immunologically indistinguishable from uninfectedcells and are insensitive to immune clearance and HAART.The persistence of transcriptionally silent but replicationcompetentHIV-1 reservoirs in HAART-treated infectedindividuals represents a major hurdle to virus eradication.To address this problem, a first approach has consisted ofstrengthening HAART. This intensification strategy reliedon the administration of additional viral inhibitors inassociation with HAART. Despite their cytotoxicity, candidatedrugs have included hydroxyurea and cyclophosphamide.Hydroxyurea inhibits the cellular enzymeribonucleotide reductase, thereby decreasing intracellulardeoxyribonucleotide pools and indirectly impeding viralreverse transcriptase activity [20,21]. Cyclophosphamideis an alkylating agent that results in cytoreduction and cellgrowth arrest, and is used to treat various types of cancersand immune diseases. However, these compounds havenot been found to decrease the latently-infected reservoirsin HIV-infected patients [22,23].The source of the observed persistent steady-state viremiain HAART-treated patients has been attributed, on the onehand, to a non-fully suppressive HAART following poordrug penetration in anatomical sanctuaries such as thecentral nervous system (CNS)[24,25]; and, on the otherhand, to the release of virus due to the reactivation oflatently-infected resting CD4+ T cells (or other cellular reservoirs)despite fully suppressive therapy. Several groupshave proposed the existence of a residual continuous HIV-1 replication, which could constantly replenish the latentpool. This proposition was based on the observation ofso-called 2-LTR cirle forms of the provirus, whose half-lifeshould be less than one day reflecting recent rounds ofinfection, in the plasma of HAART-treated patients [26-29]. However, other groups have found evidence that 2-LTR circles are actually stable and that their apparentdecline reflects dilution following cell division [30,31]. Inaddition, intensified HAART would have prevented thislow-level viral replication, and therefore would haveaccelerated the decay of the latent pool; but such resultsweren't observed [22,23]. Furthermore, several studiesincluding mathematical modelings of infected cell turnover[5,6,32] and other experimental data [33] suggestedthat persistent viremia is likely due to the intrinsic stabilityand reactivation rate of the latently-infected CD4+ Tcell reservoir. Given that memory T cells provide longtermimmunological memory for decades, their meanhalf-life can reach 44.2 months. Based upon previous estimationof 106 cells as the latent reservoir size, Silicianoand colleagues calculated that an average of 60 years ofuninterrupted HAART would be necessary to eradicatethis latent reservoir [34]. The same group has also recentlyshown that a source other than circulating resting CD4+ Tcells contributes to residual viremia and viral persistence,underscoring the importance of extending HIV-1 reservoireradication studies to other cell types [35]. Together, theseresults argue that the ultimate theoretical potential ofHAART to control viral replication has already beenreached. If the therapeutic goal is virus eradication, thennovel strategies need to be adopted to target and clear thelatent reservoirs. This clearance could be achieved byinducing HIV-1 replication in latently-infected cells, whilemaintaining or intensifying HAART in order to preventnew spreading infection. Once reactivated, latentlyinfectedcells will be eliminated by the host immune systemand/or virus-mediated cell lyses. It should be kept inmind that a single residual latently-infected cell can intheory rapidly rekindle the infection. However, a declineof the HIV-1 reservoir to a level sufficient to allow an efficientcontrol of the infection by the host immune systemmight allow for interruptions in therapy ("treatment-freewindows") and would represent important progress in thetreatment of HIV-1.This review focuses on our current knowledge and understandingof the molecular mechanisms involved in HIV-1transcriptional latency, whose deeper comprehensioncould lead to new therapeutic strategies aimed towardscombining HIV-1 gene expression activators with an effectiveHAART for decreasing/eradicating the pool oflatently-infected cells. We will detail the more advancedtreatment strategies based on T-cell activation and HDACinhibitors, and also discuss the still-in-progress conceptssuch as potential treatments targeting Tat-associated factorsand DNA- and histone- methylation.